CHAPTER I.

THE TELESCOPE, ITS INVENTION AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF ITS POWERS.


The instrument which has so vastly extended our knowledge of the
Universe, which has enabled us to acquire observations of remarkable
precision, and supplied the materials for many sublime speculations in
Astronomy, was invented early in the seventeenth century. Apart from
its special application as a means of exploring the heavens with a
capacity that is truly marvellous, it is a construction which has also
been utilized in certain other departments with signal success. It
provided mankind with a medium through which to penetrate far beyond
the reach of natural vision, and to grasp objects and phenomena which
had either eluded detection altogether or had only been seen in dim and
uncertain characters. It has also proved a very efficient instrument
for various minor purposes of instruction and recreation. The invention
of the telescope formed a new era in astronomy; and though, with a
few exceptions, men were slow at first in availing themselves of its
far-seeing resources, scepticism was soon swept aside and its value
became widely acknowledged.

But though the telescope was destined to effect work of the utmost
import, and to reach a very high degree of excellence in after
times, the result was achieved gradually. Step by step its powers
were enlarged and its qualities perfected, and thus the stream of
astronomical discovery has been enabled to flow on, stimulated by every
increase in its capacity.

There is some question as to whom may be justly credited with
the discovery of its principles of construction.
There is reason to conclude, however,
that its discovery resulted from accident rather than from theory. It
is commonly supposed that Galileo Galilei is entitled to precedence;
but there is strong evidence to show that he had been anticipated.
In any case it must be admitted that Galilei[1] had priority in
successfully utilizing its resources as a means of observational
discovery; for he it was who, first of all men, saw Jupiters
satellites, the crescent form of Venus, the mountains and craters on
the Moon, and announced them to an incredible world.

It has been supposed, and not without some basis of probability, that a
similar instrument to the telescope had been employed by the ancients;
for certain statements contained in old historical records would
suggest that the Greek philosophers had some means of extending their
knowledge further than that permitted by the naked eye. Democritus
remarked that the Galaxy or Milky Way was nothing but an assemblage
of minute stars; and it has been asked, How could he have derived this
information but by instrumental aid? It is very probable he gained the
knowledge by inferences having their source in close observation; for
anyone who attentively studies the face of the sky must be naturally
led to conclude that the appearance of the Milky Way is induced by
immense and irregular clusterings of small stars. In certain regions
of the heavens there are clear indications of this: the eye is enabled
to glimpse some of the individual star-points, and to observe how they
blend and associate with the denser aggregations which give rise to the
milky whiteness of the Galaxy.

Refracting lenses, or burning-glasses, were known at a very early
period. A lens, roughly figured into a convex shape and obviously
intended for magnifying objects, has been recovered from the ruins
of Herculaneum, buried in the ejections from Vesuvius in the year 79
A.D. Pliny and others refer to lenses that burnt by refraction, and
describe globules of glass or crystal which, when exposed in the sun,
transmit sufficient heat to ignite combustible material. The ancients
undoubtedly used tubes in the conduct of their observations, but no
lenses seem to have been employed with them, and their only utility
consisted in the fact of their shutting out the extraneous rays of
light. But spectacles were certainly known at an early period. Concave
emeralds are said to have been employed by Nero in witnessing the
combats of the gladiators, and they appear to have been the same in
effect as the spectacles worn by short-sighted people in our own times.
But the ancients supposed that the emerald possessed inherent qualities
specially helpful to vision, rather than that its utility resulted
simply from its concavity of figure. In the 13th century spectacles
were more generally worn, and the theory of their construction
understood.


Fracastor, in a work published at Venice in 1538, states:If we look
through two eye-lenses, placed the one upon the other, everything
will appear larger and nearer. He also says:There are made certain
eye-lenses of such a thickness that if the moon or any other celestial
body is viewed through them they appear to be so near that their
distance does not exceed that of the steeples of public buildings.

In other writings will also be found intimations as to the important
action of lenses; and it is hardly accountable that a matter so
valuable in its bearings was allowed to remain without practical
issues. The progressive tendency and the faculty of invention must
indeed have been in an incipient stage, and contrasts strongly with the
singular avidity with which ideas are seized upon and realized in our
own day.


This view of the case is, however, a very doubtful one, and the
invention may with far greater probability be attributed to Hans
Lippersheim in 1608. Galilei has little claim to be considered in this
relation; for he admitted that in 1609 the news reached him that a
Dutchman had devised an appliance capable of showing distant objects
with remarkable clearness. He thereupon set to work and experimented
with so much aptitude on the principles involved that he very soon
produced a telescope for himself. With this instrument he detected
the four satellites of Jupiter in 1610, and other successes shortly
followed. Being naturally gratified with the improvements he had
effected in its construction, and with the wonderful discoveries he had
made by its use, we can almost excuse the enthusiasm which prompted him
to attribute the invention to his own ingenuity. But while according
him the honour due to his sagacity in devoting this instrument to
such excellent work, we must not overlook the fact that his claim to
priority cannot be justified. Indeed, that Galilei had usurped the
title of inventor is mentioned in letters which passed between the
scientific men of that time. Fuccari, writing to Kepler, says:Galileo
wants to be considered the inventor of the telescope, though he, as
well as I and others, first saw the telescope which a certain Dutchman
first brought with him to Venice, and although he has only improved it
very little.

With of Hereford, and after him Calver of Chelmsford, became noted
for the excellency of their glass mirrors. They were found nearly
comparable to refractors of the same aperture.