Introduction to Cosmology



This book is based on my lecture notes for an upper-level undergraduate 
cosmology course at The Ohio State University. The students taking the course
were primarily juniors and seniors majoring in physics and astronomy. In my
lectures, I assumed that my students, having triumphantly survived freshman 
and sophomore physics, had a basic understanding of electrodynamics,
statistical mechanics, classical dynamics, and quantum physics. As far as
mathematics was concerned, I assumed that, like modern major generals,
they were very good at integral and differential calculus. Readers of this
book are assumed to have a similar background in physics and mathematics.
In particular, no prior knowledge of general relativity is assumed; the
(relatively) small amounts of general relativity needed to understand basic
cosmology are introduced as needed.
Unfortunately, the National Bureau of Standards has not gotten around
to establishing a standard notation for cosmological equations. It seems
that every cosmology book has its own notation; this book is no exception.
My main motivation was to make the notation as clear as possible for the
cosmological novice.
I hope that reading this book will inspire students to further explorations
in cosmology. The annotated bibliography at the end of the text provides
a selection of recommended cosmology books, at the popular, intermediate,
and advanced levels.
Many people (too many to name individually) helped in the making of
this book; I thank them all. I owe particular thanks to the students who
took my undergraduate cosmology course at Ohio State University. Their
feedback (including nonverbal feedback such as frowns and snores during
lectures) greatly improved the lecture notes on which this book is based.
Adam Black and Nancy Gee, at Addison Wesley, made possible the great
leap from rough lecture notes to polished book. The reviewers of the text,
both anonymous and onymous, pointed out many errors and omissions. I
owe particular thanks to Gerald Newsom, whose careful reading of the entire
manuscript improved it greatly. My greatest debt, however, is to Rick Pogge,
who acted as my computer maven, graphics guru, and sanity check. (He was
also a tireless hunter of creeping fox terrier clones.) As a small sign of my
great gratitude, this book is dedicated to him.