The Project Gutenberg EBook of Recreations in Astronomy, by Henry Warren

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Recreations in Astronomy
With Directions for Practical Experiments and Telescopic Work

Author: Henry Warren

Release Date: April 14, 2005 [EBook #15620]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RECREATIONS IN ASTRONOMY ***

Produced by Robert J. Hall.


All sciences are making an advance, but Astronomy is moving at the
double-quick. Since the principles of this science were settled
by Copernicus, four hundred years ago, it has never had to beat
a retreat. It is rewritten not to correct material errors, but
to incorporate new discoveries.

Once Astronomy treated mostly of tides, seasons, and telescopic
aspects of the planets; now these are only primary matters. Once
it considered stars as mere fixed points of light; now it studies
them as suns, determines their age, size, color, movements, chemical
constitution, and the revolution of their planets. Once it considered
space as empty; now it knows that every cubic inch of it quivers with
greater intensity of force than that which is visible in Niagara.
Every inch of surface that can be conceived of between suns is more
wave-tossed than the ocean in a storm.

The invention of the telescope constituted one era in Astronomy;
its perfection in our day, another; and the discoveries of the
spectroscope a third--no less important than either of the others.

While nearly all men are prevented from practical experimentation
in these high realms of knowledge, few [Page viii] have so little
leisure as to be debarred from intelligently enjoying the results
of the investigations of others.

This book has been written not only to reveal some of the highest
achievements of the human mind, but also to let the heavens declare
the glory of the Divine Mind. In the author's judgment, there is no
gulf that separates science and religion, nor any conflict where
they stand together. And it is fervently hoped that anyone who
comes to a better knowledge of God's works through reading this
book, may thereby come to a more intimate knowledge of the Worker.

I take great pleasure in acknowledging my indebtedness to J. M.
Van Vleck, LL.D., of the U.S. Nautical Almanac staff, and Professor
of Astronomy at the Wesleyan University, for inspecting some of the
more important chapters; to Dr. S. S. White, of Philadelphia, for
telescopic advantages; to Professor Henry Draper, for furnishing,
in advance of publication, a photograph of the sun's corona in 1878;
and to the excellent work on "Popular Astronomy," by Professor
Simon Newcomb, LL.D., Professor U. S. Naval Observatory, for some
of the most recent information, and for the use of the unequalled
engravings of Jupiter, Saturn, and the great nebula of Orion.



