*** Natural Language Interfaces to Databases ***



The purpose of this paper is to serve as an introduction to some key concepts, problems,
methodologies, and lines of research in the area of natural language interfaces to databases.
This paper is by no means a complete discussion of all the issues that are relevant to Nlidbs.
The reader is also referred to [29] and [79] for alternative surveys of the same field.1 A detailed
description of a natural language front-end that reflects the current state of the art can be
found in [2] and [3].
  Although the paper contains hints about the capabilities of existing Nlidbs, it does not
contain complete descriptions of particular systems, nor is the purpose of this paper to com-
pare particular Nlidbs. This paper is mainly based on information obtained from published
documents. The authors do not have personal hands-on experience with most of the Nlidbs
that will be mentioned. Whenever a system’s feature is mentioned, this means that the doc-
uments cited state that the particular system provides this feature, and it is not implied that
other systems do not have similar capabilities. Finally, this paper assumes that the user’s
requests are communicated to the Nlidb by typing on a computer keyboard. Issues related
to speech processing are not discussed.
  The remainder of this paper is organised as follows: section 2 is a brief overview of the
history of Nlidbs2 ; section 3 discusses the advantages and disadvantages of Nlidbs; section 4
presents some of the linguistic problems Nlidbs have to cope with; section 5 describes archi-
tectures adopted in existing Nlidbs; section 6 discusses portability issues related to Nlidbs;
section 7 introduces Nlidbs that explicitly restrict the set of natural language expressions the
user is allowed to input, so that the user can have a clearer view of what sorts of questions the
system can understand; section 8 describes Nlidbs with reasoning modules; section 9 high-
lights some less explored areas of Nlidb research, namely database updates, meta-knowledge
questions, temporal questions, and multi-modal interfaces; finally, section 10 summarises the
current state of the art.


2        Some history
Prototype Nlidbs had already appeared in the late sixties and early seventies. The best-
known Nlidb of that period is Lunar [106], a natural language interface to a database
containing chemical analyses of moon rocks. Lunar and other early natural language in-
terfaces were each built having a particular database in mind, and thus could not be easily
modified to be used with different databases. (Although the internal representation meth-
ods used in Lunar were argued to facilitate independence between the database and other
modules [105], the way that these were used was somewhat specific to that project’s needs.
Portability issues are discussed in section 6.)
    By the late seventies several more Nlidbs had appeared. Rendezvous [27] engaged the
user in dialogues to help him/her formulate his/her queries. Ladder [58] could be used
with large databases, and it could be configured to interface to different underlying database
management systems (Dbmss). Ladder used semantic grammars (discussed in section 5.3),
    1
        Sections 4 and 5 were greatly influenced by [79].
    2
        Section 2 is largely based on information from [29], [79], and [89].
