COMPUTER NETWORKING

What is New in the Sixth Edition
We think one important reason for this success has been that our book continues to offer
a fresh and timely approach to computer networking instruction. We have made changes
in this sixth edition, but we have also kept unchanged what we believe (and the instruc
tors and students who have used our book have confirmed) to be the most important
aspects of this book: its top down approach, its focus on the Internet and a modern
treatment of computer networking, its attention to both principles and practice, and its
accessible style and approach toward learning about computer networking. Neverthe
less, the sixth edition has been revised and updated substantially:

 The Companion Web site has been significantly expanded and enriched to
  include VideoNotes and interactive exercises, as discussed later in this Preface.
 In Chapter 1, the treatment of access networks has been modernized, and the
  description of the Internet ISP ecosystem has been substantially revised, account
  ing for the recent emergence of content provider networks, such as Google. The
  presentation of packet switching and circuit switching has also been reorganized,
  providing a more topical rather than historical orientation.
 In Chapter 2, Python has replaced Java for the presentation of socket program
  ming. While still explicitly exposing the key ideas behind the socket API, Python
  code is easier to understand for the novice programmer. Moreover, unlike Java,
  Python provides access to raw sockets, enabling students to build a larger variety
  of network applications. Java based socket programming labs have been
  replaced with corresponding Python labs, and a new Python based ICMP Ping
  lab has been added. As always, when material is retired from the book, such as
  Java based socket programming material, it remains available on the book
  Companion Web site (see following text).
 In Chapter 3, the presentation of one of the reliable data transfer protocols has
  been simplified and a new sidebar on TCP splitting, commonly used to optimize
  the performance of cloud services, has been added.
 In Chapter 4, the section on router architectures has been significantly updated,
  reflecting recent developments and practices in the field. Several new integrative
  sidebars involving DNS, BGP, and OSPF are included.
viii   Preface

